Update API-design-guidelines for subscription (#198)
camaraproject/Commonalities: documentation/API-design-guidelines.md

When the API Consumer includes the "X-Correlator" header in the request, the API provider must include it in the response with the same value that was used in the request. Otherwise, it is optional to include the "X-Correlator" header in the response with any valid value. Recommendation is to use UUID for values.

> In notification scenarios (i.e. POST request sent towards the listener to the `sink.notificationUrl` indicated), the use of the "X-Correlator" is supported for the same aim as well. When the API request includes the "X-Correlator" header, it is recommended for the listener to include it in the response with the same value as was used in the request. Otherwise, it is optional to include the "X-Correlator" header in the response with any valid value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In notification scenarios (i.e. POST request sent towards the listener to the `sink.notificationUrl` indicated), the use of the "x-correlator" is supported for the same aim as well. When the API request includes the "x-correlator" header, it is recommended for the listener to include it in the response with the same value as was used in the request. Otherwise, it is optional to include the "x-correlator" header in the response with any valid value.
```

> In notification scenarios (i.e. POST request sent towards the listener to the `sink.notificationUrl` indicated), the use of the "x-correlator" is supported for the same aim as well. When the API request includes the "x-correlator" header, it is recommended for the listener to include it in the response with the same value as was used in the request. Otherwise, it is optional to include the "x-correlator" header in the response with any valid value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In notification scenarios (i.e. POST request sent towards the listener to the `sink` indicated), the use of the "x-correlator" is supported for the same aim as well. When the API request includes the "x-correlator" header, it is recommended for the listener to include it in the response with the same value as was used in the request. Otherwise, it is optional to include the "x-correlator" header in the response with any valid value.
```

When the API Consumer includes the "x-correlator" header in the request, the API provider must include it in the response with the same value that was used in the request. Otherwise, it is optional to include the "x-correlator" header in the response with any valid value. Recommendation is to use UUID for values.

> In notification scenarios (i.e. POST request sent towards the listener to the `webhook.notificationUrl` indicated), the use of the "x-correlator" is supported for the same aim as well. When the API request includes the "x-correlator" header, it is recommended for the listener to include it in the response with the same value as was used in the request. Otherwise, it is optional to include the "x-correlator" header in the response with any valid value.

Reviewer 3: I guess 'sink' is now used for the callback address

```suggestion
In notification scenarios (i.e. POST request sent towards the listener indicated by `sink` address), the use of the "x-correlator" is supported for the same aim as well. When the API request includes the "x-correlator" header, it is recommended for the listener to include it in the response with the same value as was used in the request. Otherwise, it is optional to include the "x-correlator" header in the response with any valid value.
```

Providing this capability is optional for any CAMARA API depending on UC requirements.

If this capability is present in CAMARA API, following attributes **must** be used in the POST request :

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 
| sink | string | https callback address where the notification must be POST-ed | mandatory |

> | sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authentication or authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic | optional |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authentication or authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. It is RECOMMENDED for subscription consumer to provide credential to protect notification enpoint. | optional |
```

| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 
| sink | string | https callback address where the notification must be POST-ed | mandatory |
| sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authentication or authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic | optional |

Several types of `sinkCredential` could be available in future but for now only access token credential are managed.

``sinkCredential`` attributes table (must be access token for now):

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 
| credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |
| accessToken | string | Access Token granting access to the POST operation to create notification | mandatory |
| accessTokenExpireUtc | string date-time | An absolute UTC instant at which the access token shall be considered expired. | mandatory |
| accessTokenType | string | Type of access token - MUST be set to `Bearer` for now | mandatory |

##### Instance-based (implicit) subscription examples

> If credentials are not required:

Reviewer 4: The case "credentials are not required" should not exist. Why should any client worth its security-salt ever expose a callback endpoint without any security? On the Internet this is definitely a no-no. Camara should not suggest no-security to API consumers.
If you think "DMZ" or "Intranet", there also should never be any endpoint without security.
If you do not trust my expertise, then trust Google's security exports. [Zero-Trust](https://cloud.google.com/learn/what-is-zero-trust).

If an subscriber realy realy wants to be insecure then they can set the access-token to "insecure" and ignore the Authorization header at their endpoint.

I strongly suggest removing everything related to "If credentials are not required".

Author: I'm fine to remove this example.

BTW, we have a § on the security [here](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/blob/d5da262ffa8d806a2b4778a9b6e3f3c5af809ee7/documentation/API-design-guidelines.md#security-considerations) .

Author: Example removed + added recommendation line 1404

```json
{
 /* Resource instance representation */
  "sink": "https://callback..."
}
```

> If credentials are required:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Credentials Case:
```

Author: Added a sentence here.

```json
{
 /* Resource instance representation */
  "sink": "https://callback...",
  "sinkCredential": {
    "credentialType": "ACCESSTOKEN",
    "accessToken" : "eyJ2ZXIiOiIxLjAiLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiL..",
    "accessTokenExpireUtc" : "2024-12-06T14:37:56.147Z",

>     "accessTokenType" : "Bearer"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "accessTokenType" : "bearer"
```

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 
| sink | string | https callback address where the notification must be POST-ed | mandatory |

> | sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authentication or authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic | optional |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authentication or authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. All APIs should be protected. If the credentialtype is `SHARED_SECRET`and the sinkCredential is not present, then the sink URL should contain a random component that acts like the shared secret. | optional |
```

Several types of `sinkCredential` could be available in future but for now only access token credential are managed.

``sinkCredential`` attributes table (must be access token for now):

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 

> | credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |

Reviewer 4: // Edited my suggestion from SHARED_SECRET to PLAIN

I assume that neither the Camara AZ nor the RS are becoming a client for the client. 
How would the sinkCredentials be received or created if Camara is not a client? 
Camara could only retrieve an ACCESS_TOKEN or REFRESH_TOKEN if Camara is a client of the client.

If the sinkCredentials are handed to the Camara in the subscription request then that sinkCredentials is `PLAIN`not an ACCESS_TOKEN.

Please clarify how we get sinkCredentials. Maybe I overlooked that. Hope we do not plan to become a client of the client.

| accessToken | string | Access Token granting access to the POST operation to create notification | mandatory |
| accessTokenExpireUtc | string date-time | An absolute UTC instant at which the access token shall be considered expired. | mandatory |
| accessTokenType | string | Type of access token - MUST be set to `Bearer` for now | mandatory |

##### Instance-based (implicit) subscription examples

> If credentials are not required:

Reviewer 3: Referring to issue https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/204
Should we consider empty security scheme (even it is the risk of API Consumer)?

Reviewer 4: No.

Reviewer 2: This is something that we need to discuss. 
I prefer having such discussion within issue 204. It has collateral considerations.
Would also like to know @shilpa-padgaonkar and @bigludo7 view on that

Reviewer: I would prefer to discuss it in 204 & not block this PR for it.

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 

> | sink | string | https callback address where the notification must be POST-ed | mandatory |

Author: Yes agreed - this will be more consistent. Will change this way.

> | sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authentication or authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic | optional |

Author: Changed the description by using the one from CloudsEvents definition (https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/subscriptions/spec.md#sinkcredential)

Several types of `sinkCredential` could be available in future but for now only access token credential are managed.

``sinkCredential`` attributes table (must be access token for now):

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 
| credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |
| accessToken | string | Access Token granting access to the POST operation to create notification | mandatory |

> | accessTokenExpireUtc | string date-time | An absolute UTC instant at which the access token shall be considered expired. | mandatory |

Reviewer 2: One point that we need to discuss. When Access Token expires, How to manage the subscription

Author: I guess we need to terminate the subscription and provide a subscription-ends event with terminationReason set to "ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRED" ?  WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Let me think and back here in this week.

Reviewer 2: It is OK

In order to ease developer adoption, the pattern for Resource-based event subscription should be consistent for all API providing this feature.

> CAMARA subscription model leverages **[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/)** and is based on release [0.1-wip](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/subscriptions/spec.md) as it is a vendor-neutral specification for defining the format of subscription. A generic neutral CloudEvent subscription OpenAPI specification is available in [Commonalities/artifact](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/tree/main/artifacts) directory (event-subscription-template.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CAMARA subscription model leverages **[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/)** and is based on release [0.1-wip](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/subscriptions/spec.md) as it is a vendor-neutral specification for defining the format of subscription. A generic neutral CloudEvent subscription OpenAPI specification is available in [Commonalities/artifact](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/tree/main/artifacts/https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/tree/main/artifacts/camara-cloudevents) directory (event-subscription-template.yaml).
```

Reviewer: @bigludo7 small change in the directory path

In order to ease developer adoption, the pattern for Resource-based event subscription should be consistent for all API providing this feature.

> CAMARA subscription model leverages **[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/)** and is based on release [0.1-wip](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/subscriptions/spec.md) as it is a vendor-neutral specification for defining the format of subscription. A generic neutral CloudEvent subscription OpenAPI specification is available in Commonalities/artifact directory (event-subscription-template.yaml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CAMARA subscription model leverages **[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/)** and is based on release [0.1-wip](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/subscriptions/spec.md) as it is a vendor-neutral specification for defining the format of subscription. A generic neutral CloudEvent subscription OpenAPI specification is available in [Commonalities/artifact](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/tree/main/artifacts) directory (event-subscription-template.yaml).
```

In order to ease developer adoption, the pattern for Resource-based event subscription should be consistent for all API providing this feature.

> CAMARA subscription model leverages **[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/)**  and is based on release [0.1-wip](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/subscriptions/spec.md) as it is a vendor-neutral specification for defining the format of subscription. A generic neutral CloudEvent subscription OpenAPI specification is available in Commonalities/artifact directory (event-subscription-template.yaml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CAMARA subscription model leverages **[CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/)** and is based on release [0.1-wip](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/subscriptions/spec.md) as it is a vendor-neutral specification for defining the format of subscription. A generic neutral CloudEvent subscription OpenAPI specification is available in Commonalities/artifact directory (event-subscription-template.yaml).
```

| initialEvent | boolean | Set to true by API consumer if consumer wants to get an event as soon as the subscription is created and current situation reflects event request. Example: Consumer request Roaming event. If consumer sets initialEvent to true and device is in roaming situation, an event is triggered. Up to API project decision to keep it. | optional |

Subscription status value table:

Managing subscription is a draft feature and it is not mandatory for now. An API project could decide to use/not use it. A list of status is provided for global consistency.

| status | definition |
| ------ | -----------|
| ACTIVATION_REQUESTED | Subscription creation (POST) is triggered but subscription creation process is not finished yet. |
| ACTIVE | Subscription creation process is completed. Subscription is fully operative. |
| DEACTIVE | Subscription is temporarily inactive, but its workflow logic is not deleted. DEACTIVE could be used when an user initially provided consent for the event monitor and then later denied this consent. For now we did not provide capability to reactive subscription. |

> | EXPIRED | Subscription is ended (no longer active). This status applies when subscription is ended due to max event reached or expire time reached. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| EXPIRED | Subscription is ended (no longer active). This status applies when subscription is ended due to max event reached, expire time reached or access token indicated for notification securization (i.e. sinkCredential) expiration time reached. |
```

Note on the operation path:
The recommended pattern is to use `/subscriptions` path for the subscription operation. But API design team, for specific case, has the option to append `/subscriptions` path with a prefix (e.g. `/roaming/subscriptions` and `/connectivity/subscriptions`). The rationale for using this alternate pattern should be explicitly provided (e.g. the notification source for each of the supported events may be completely different, in which case separating the implementations is beneficial). 

The following table provides `/subscriptions` attributes

| name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  |  -----  | 
| protocol | string | Identifier of a delivery protocol. **Only** `HTTP` **is allowed for now**.| Mandatory |
| sink | string | https callback address where the notification must be POST-ed | mandatory |

> | sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. It is RECOMMENDED for subscription consumer to provide credentiel to protect notification enpoint.| optional |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. It is RECOMMENDED for subscription consumer to provide credential to protect notification enpoint.| optional |
```

> | sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. It is RECOMMENDED for subscription consumer to provide credentiel to protect notification enpoint.| optional |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. To protect the notification endpoint providing sinkCredential is RECOMMENDED.| optional |
```

| name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  |  -----  | 
| protocol | string | Identifier of a delivery protocol. **Only** `HTTP` **is allowed for now**.| Mandatory |
| sink | string | https callback address where the notification must be POST-ed | mandatory |

> | sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. | optional |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authentication or authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. | optional |
```

Reviewer 2: to align the description (in other section it is also documented)

> | types | string | Type of event subscribed. This attribute **must** be present in the `POST` request. It is required by API project to provide an enum for this attribute. `type` must follow the format: `org.camaraproject.<api-name>.<api-version>.<event-name>` with the `api-version` with letter `v` and the major version like  ``org.camaraproject.device-roaming-subscriptions.v1.roaming-status`` - Note: An array of types could be passed **but as of now only one value MUST passed**. Use of multiple value will be open later at API level.| mandatory  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| types | string | Type of event subscribed. This attribute **must** be present in the `POST` request. It is required by API project to provide an enum for this attribute. `type` must follow the format: `org.camaraproject.<api-name>.<api-version>.<event-name>` with the `api-version` with letter `v` and the major version like  ``org.camaraproject.device-roaming-subscriptions.v1.roaming-status`` - Note: An array of types could be passed **but as of now only one value MUST passed**. Use of multiple value will be open later at API level.| mandatory |
```

> | config | object | Implementation-specific configuration parameters needed by the subscription manager for acquiring events. In CAMARA we have predefined attributes like ``subscriptionExpireTime``, ``subscriptionMaxEvents`` or ``initialEvent``. see detail below.| mandatory |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| config | object | Implementation-specific configuration parameters needed by the subscription manager for acquiring events. In CAMARA we have predefined attributes like ``subscriptionExpireTime``, ``subscriptionMaxEvents`` or ``initialEvent``. See detail below. | mandatory |
```

| id | string | Identifier of the event subscription - This attribute must not be present in the POST request as it is provided by API server | mandatory in server response |

> | startsAt | string - date-time| Date when the event subscription will begin/began. This attribute must not be present in the `POST` request as it is provided by API server. It must be present in `GET` endpoints | optional |

Reviewer 2: | startsAt | string - date-time | Date when the event subscription will begin/began. This attribute must not be present in the `POST` request as it is provided by API server. It must be present in `GET` endpoints | optional |

adding space after "date-time"

Author: Fixed

> | expiresAt | string - date-time| Date when the event subscription will expire. This attribute must not be present in the `POST` request as it is provided (optionally) by API server.  | optional |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| expiresAt | string - date-time | Date when the event subscription will expire. This attribute must not be present in the `POST` request as it is provided (optionally) by API server. | optional |
```

| status | string | Current status of the subscription - Management of Subscription state engine is not mandatory for now. Note: not all statuses may be considered to be implemented. See below status table. | optional |

``sinkCredential`` attributes table (must be only access token for now):

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 
| credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |
| accessToken | string | Access Token granting access to the POST operation to create notification | mandatory |
| accessTokenExpireUtc | string date-time | An absolute UTC instant at which the access token shall be considered expired. | mandatory |

> | accessTokenType | string | Type of access token - MUST be set to `Bearer` for now | mandatory |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| accessTokenType | string | Type of access token - MUST be set to `bearer` for now | mandatory |
```

`config` attributes table:

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 
| subscriptionMaxEvents | integer | Identifies the maximum number of event reports to be generated (>=1) - Once this number is reached, the subscription ends. Up to API project decision to keep it. | optional |

> | subscriptionDetail | object | Object defined for each event subscription depending on the event. This is in this object that for example the device identifier will be provided (see example below).  | mandatory |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| subscriptionDetail | object | Object defined for each event subscription depending on the event. This is in this object that for example the device identifier will be provided (see example below). | mandatory |
```

| ACTIVE | Subscription creation process is completed. Subscription is fully operative. |
| DEACTIVE | Subscription is temporarily inactive, but its workflow logic is not deleted. DEACTIVE could be used when an user initially provided consent for the event monitor and then later denied this consent. For now we did not provide capability to reactive subscription. |
| EXPIRED | Subscription is ended (no longer active). This status applies when subscription is ended due to max event reached or expire time reached. |
| DELETED | Subscription is ended as deleted (no longer active). This status applies when subscription information is kept (i.e. subscription workflow is no longer active but its metainformation is kept). |

##### Error definition for resource-based (explicit) subscription

Error definition described in this guideline applies for subscriptions.

Following Error code must be present:
* for `POST`: 400, 401, 403, 409, 415, 429, 500, 503
* for `GET`: 400, 401, 403, 500, 503
* for `GET .../{subscriptionId}`: 400, 401, 403, 404, 500, 503
* for `DELETE`: 400, 401, 403, 404, 500, 503

> Please see in Commonalities/artifact directory ``event-subscription-template.yaml`` for more information and error examples. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please see in [Commonalities/artifact directory](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/tree/main/artifacts) ``event-subscription-template.yaml`` for more information and error examples. 
```

| id | string | Identifier of the event subscription - This attribute must not be present in the POST request as it is provided by API server | mandatory in server response |
| startsAt | string - date-time| Date when the event subscription will begin/began. This attribute must not be present in the `POST` request as it is provided by API server. It must be present in `GET` endpoints | optional |
| expiresAt | string - date-time| Date when the event subscription will expire. This attribute must not be present in the `POST` request as it is provided (optionally) by API server.  | optional |
| status | string | Current status of the subscription - Management of Subscription state engine is not mandatory for now. Note: not all statuses may be considered to be implemented. See below status table. | optional |

``sinkCredential`` attributes table (must be only access token for now):

| attribute name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  | -----  | 

> | credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |

Reviewer 2: It has been followed https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/subscriptions/spec.md#323-sink-credentials to be compliant with CloudEvent Model. And agreed to use so far "ACCESSTOKEN" (FYI)

> | credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |

Reviewer 4: Edited: replaced SHARED_SECRET by PLAIN
Please see other comment about Camara becoming a client of the client. Is that what was agreed upon in Commonalities? How is the sinkCredentials created and know to Camara?

> | credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |

Reviewer 4: CloudEvents does not specify anythink about security
> The CloudEvents spec currently does not mandate or advocate any specific mechanism or principles in the matter of **Authorization**, Data Integrity and Confidentiality, as the current intention behind this spec is not to define Security principles with regards to CloudEvents. 

In light of that I see that ACCESS_TOKEN can be correct, because of Commonalities can define whatever we want in regard of **Authorization**.

What is the subscription section and the PR is then missing, is how the access token is created and what the sink MUST do to validate it.

> | credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |

Reviewer 4: @PedroDiez I think ACCESS_TOKEN is only OK if the AccessToken is created by Camara and validated by sink. There is no documentation about token creation nor validation.

If we are handed the credentials at subscription-time, then that credentials is "PLAIN" I think.

> | credentialtype | string | Type of the credential - MUST be set to `ACCESSTOKEN` for now | mandatory |

Reviewer 2: @AxelNennker Agree that CloudEvents does not specify the behaviour of sinkCredential

Think, I get your point about the credentials at subscription-time.

About your suggestion of using "PLAIN" for now. What is your understanding of this model?
My understanding is API Consumer indicates identifier and secret at subscription-time and Telco Operator generates  HTTP Basic Auth to secure the notification sent to the API Consumer

- About ACCESSTOKEN

Being compliant with current proposal, it only makes sense this Token is generated by API Consumer on their own at subscription-time, without any interaction with Telco Operator. API consumer establishes _accessTokenExpiresUtc_ so as it controls its lifetime and validity.

Another point of discussion is what happens when the Token expires. The subscription is enabled but when Telco Operator indicates this token towards API Consumer it will reject the notification. 

The model about Telco Operator requesting a Token to an API Consumer (case sinkCredential not provided at subscription-time but is required to be secured) does not make sense to me (think your view is the same) because that implictly means we are requesting API Consumers to implement an AZ Server and also Telco Operators to interact with it. Too complex.

| name | type | attribute description | cardinality |
| ----- |	-----  |	 -----  |  -----  | 

> | protocol | string | Identifier of a delivery protocol. **Only** `HTPP` **is allowed for now**.| Mandatory |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| protocol | string | Identifier of a delivery protocol. **Only** `HTTP` **is allowed for now**.| Mandatory |
```

| sink | string | https callback address where the notification must be POST-ed | mandatory |

> | sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authentication or authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. | optional |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| sinkCredential | object | Sink credential provides authorization information necessary to enable delivery of events to a target. In order to be updated in future this object is polymorphic. See detail below. | optional |
```

| subscriptionExpireTime | string (date-time) | The subscription expiration time (in date-time format) requested by the API consumer. Up to API project decision to keep it. | optional |
| initialEvent | boolean | Set to true by API consumer if consumer wants to get an event as soon as the subscription is created and current situation reflects event request. Example: Consumer request Roaming event. If consumer sets initialEvent to true and device is in roaming situation, an event is triggered. Up to API project decision to keep it. | optional |

Subscription status value table:

Managing subscription is a draft feature and it is not mandatory for now. An API project could decide to use/not use it. A list of status is provided for global consistency.

| status | definition |
| ------ | -----------|
| ACTIVATION_REQUESTED | Subscription creation (POST) is triggered but subscription creation process is not finished yet. |
| ACTIVE | Subscription creation process is completed. Subscription is fully operative. |

> | DEACTIVE | Subscription is temporarily inactive, but its workflow logic is not deleted. DEACTIVE could be use when an user initially provided consent for the event monitor and then later denied this consent. For now we did not provide capability to reactive subscription. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| DEACTIVE | Subscription is temporarily inactive, but its workflow logic is not deleted. DEACTIVE could be used when an user initially provided consent for the event monitor and then later denied this consent. For now we did not provide capability to reactive subscription. |
```

##### Resource-based (explicit) example
In this example, we illustrate a request for a device roaming status event subscription. Requester did not provide an anticipated expiration time for the subscription but requested to get an event if the device is in roaming situation at subscription time and set the max limit to event to 10. In the response, server accepts this request and sets an event subscription end one year later. This is an illustration and each implementation is free to provide - or not - a subscription planned expiration date.

Request:

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:9091/device-roaming-subscriptions/v1/subscriptions' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer c8974e592c2fa383d4a3960714' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \

>   -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbG...."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
This PR now has two Authorization Headers, one is enough

##### Resource-based (explicit) example
In this example, we illustrate a request for a device roaming status event subscription. Requester did not provide an anticipated expiration time for the subscription but requested to get an event if the device is in roaming situation at subscription time and set the max limit to event to 10. In the response, server accepts this request and sets an event subscription end one year later. This is an illustration and each implementation is free to provide - or not - a subscription planned expiration date.

Request:

```bash
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:9091/device-roaming-subscriptions/v1/subscriptions' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \

>   -d

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  -H "Authorization: Bearer eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbG...."
  -d
```

 ```
 ```json 
{
  "protocol" : "HTTP",
  "sink": "https://application-server.com",
  "types" : [
      "org.camaraproject.device-roaming-subscriptions.v1.roaming-status"
  ],
  "config": {
    "subscriptionDetail": {
      "device": {

>         "phoneNumber": "12345678"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        "phoneNumber": "+346661113334"
```

Reviewer 4: Actually, I am not too happy with "phoneNumber" because this is personal-identifiable information and the access_token was created after some user authentication and consent collection, and when the authorization server created the access token (and/or id token) the subject `sub` is known. 
There might be no need for subscriptionDetails because the subject is already known and "integrated" into the access token.
Only if this endpoint allows client credentials the details are needed. "client credentials" should be the exception in Camara.

```
```json 
{
  "protocol" : "HTTP",
  "sink": "https://application-server.com",
  "types" : [
      "org.camaraproject.device-roaming-subscriptions.v1.roaming-status"
  ],
  "config": {
    "subscriptionDetail": {
      "device": {

>         "phoneNumber": "12345678"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        "phoneNumber": "+346661113334"
```

Note: The notification is the message posted on listener side. We describe the notification(s) in the CAMARA API using the `callbacks`. From API consumer it could be confusing because this endpoint must be implemented on the business API consumer side. This notice should be explicitly mentioned in all CAMARA API documentation featuring notifications.

Only Operation POST is provided for event notification and the expected response code is `204`. 

> The URL for this `POST` operation must be specified in the swagger as `{$request.body#/sink/notificationUrl}`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The URL for this `POST` operation must be specified in the API specification as `{$request.body#/sink}`. 
```
